as the United Nations Mourns the death
of more than 100 staff members in Gaza
the un's host country and largest donor
is being sued for its role in the war
United States President Joe Biden
Secretary of State Anthony blinkin and
defense secretary Lloyd Austin are
accused of failing to prevent and aiding
and abetting genocide the lawsuit in
federal court was filed by a nonprofit
legal organization they have a
significant respons responsibility under
customary international law under
federal law uh to prevent this genocide
to stop supporting this genocide and
every step of the way at every
opportunity they have failed um they
have continued to provide cover to
Israel they have continued to provide
material support to Israel and currently
they intend to send more money and more
weapons to Israel plaintiffs in the case
include US citizens with family in Gaza
like Leila alhadad who lost five family
members there since October 7th and has
several more struggling to survive I
paid for Israel to kill my cousins and
my aunt there's no two ways around
it it was my tax dollars that did that
that sent those bombs to Israel to kill
my family and so I feel I and all other
American taxpayers have a very unique
responsibility to hold our government
and our elected officials responsible
the convention on the prevention of
genocide was unanimously adopted by the
UN General Assembly in 1948 but was not
formally ratified by US Congress until
1988 in legislation that was sponsored
by then Senator Joe
Biden in addition to finding the leaders
in violation of the law the lawsuit
calls for relief in the form of ending
the United States 3.8 bill million
dollar in annual Military Support to
Israel the White House has yet to
respond to our request for comment on
the case while it would be unusual for
the US Judiciary to rule on US policy
abroad lawyers say there is extensive
evidence to support their case and that
it's not just a matter of saving lives
but one of international law and order
Christen salumi Al jazer the United
Nations make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jaaz